how exactly do you choose the first
programming language to learn why PHP
and not Ruby or JavaScript or python I
mean how can you be expected to make
such a large decision without having the
expertise to differentiate between all
of the available choices it s a good
question now we could look at usage
stats or developer happiness reviews but
the truth is it largely depends on your
environments there s no one correct
answer just as there s no correct spoken
language to learn it just depends
now if you re hoping to in turn add a
WordPress or a layerable shop then
you re surely going to one PHP on the
other hand you might have a friend who
works at Shopify who is offered to show
you the ropes in that case you ll likely
be working with Ruby and that s cool too
the point is it doesn t really matter
right now you re interested in the
fundamentals of programming whether you
choose PHP or Ruby or something else it
doesn t really matter you ll be happy to
hear that these Concepts cross over and
once you ve learned one language the
next one is significantly easier to pick
up
