This is a subtitle
Bar
This is a subtitle
Bar
This is a subtitle
Bar
welcome back I hope you had a good
holiday if you celebrate Thanksgiving I
have a pretty decent one had a weird
sore throat problem but I m starting to
recover from it and feel a lot better
now so that s good
and I actually didn t have a big turkey
I am half 11 knees so he actually had
some middle eastern food we had Kibby
which is a minced meat dish mixed with
bulgur which is actually quite good I
enjoyed it a lot but today we re going
to be talking about hosting your
projects and where are some good options
if you want to save money and deploy on
a budget so the general way to save
money when deploying things is to spend
more time setting them up yourself
rather than paying a service to set up
stuff for you now the first thing that
we re going to look at is cloud
providers now they kind of break the
rule because they do this thing where
they have a juicy free tier so AWS has
it where they offer a bunch of free
stuff for their services for 12 months
Azure has a similar thing where for 12
months they offer you free services and
they also throw in a two hundred dollar
credit for 30 days now AWS I believe
also gives you like a hundred dollar
credit you can get somewhere and all of
these cloud providers have random
promotions where they re throwing money
at you also Google cloud has one where
you just get straight 300 for 12 months
and then they also have some always free
stuff so these guys are kind of cheating
because they don t actually charge you
anything usually until after a year of
using them or until you pass their free
usage which usually doesn t happen right
away so there s this illusion of value
that you re able to not spend anything
and get a ton of services and so this is
the exception to the rule where you re
able to leverage some of this stuff
short term and that s the key thing
these are great options if you want to
set up a project that you think maybe
take a year to
set up or something you re gonna have a
low traffic at first and then after that
you see yourself growing the project and
starting to get more users and hopefully
generating some revenue through your
service and then you can pay for some of
the higher prices that the cloud
services are going to charge because
that is the way they function they try
to hook you in with the free services
you get set up and using them you re
using their services so it s harder to
migrate away and use a different service
it s easier to just stay where you are
so when the free tier is up you continue
using them and you start using their
paid versions of whatever you re getting
from free before and this is where it
starts to get more expensive than some
of the other options but with that said
I still think this is a super legit way
to go especially if you see yourself in
the short term having a smaller budget
but in the long term having a more
flexible or larger budget to work with
especially because it s always gonna be
cheaper to hire Google cloud to manage
for example your database or your
servers than it is to hire a human to
monitor and make sure those things are
working and so if you want to start
cheap and then get some of the services
that are gonna be handled for you I
think a cloud free tier and then paying
later is a great option to go with now
there s some other things to consider
when choosing a cloud provider there s
two things that I do not like about them
the first is their complexity just to
setup and use so they have gone to the
point now where they are just supporting
so many use cases and so many different
services that their dashboards are
getting very very complex and they are
offering certificates to learn AWS or
you get certified to show that you
actually know how to use AWS now because
it is that complex and you actually put
on your resume that you are capable of
using AWS because it is getting to that
point where you really need to study it
to fully understand how it works and
make sure you re using it correctly and
so that really ties in with the second
thing you can really easily mess up and
the price
is not always super transparent it s
very easy to spin up a lot of different
services underneath the hood and then
all of a sudden you have a larger bill
than you were expecting so it s not
always clear how much you re going to be
spending when you actually start using
these cloud providers so once you ve
decided you actually want to use a cloud
provider the next question is which one
should you use should you go with Google
Microsoft desert or Amazon s AWS now
this is a video and it s owned which one
should you choose and this is also just
not the only options Oracle has a cloud
these just happen to be the biggest ones
and I would probably recommend just
starting with AWS because this happens
to be the one that is used the most so
it s gonna carry over this skill set to
know a BWS is actually getting pretty
important and a lot of different jobs
need it and you ll use it in a lot of
different places but I m gonna leave an
in depth comparison for a separate video
okay so that is option number one go
with a cloud and take advantage of their
generous free tears now option number
two is one that I personally use and
it s where we get more into setting
stuff up ourselves and I m gonna split
this into four categories number one is
hosting our database number two is
hosting our server number three is
hosting our front end
so server more are back inside and then
our front end side our website and then
lastly what about user uploaded images
now I m choosing that because that s a
very common thing that you usually have
in your application and something you
need to think about and affects how you
host so starting with the database this
is what I would not recommend using if
you re on a budget and the reason for
that is it gets very expensive very
quickly and that is these hosted
database options that are getting more
popular so one example this is M lap
where they will host a MongoDB database
for you and you can see here it costs
15 per gigabyte and that is very
expensive a gigabyte is not a lot of
data but if you take it to the
why this is so much it makes sense and
that s because you re not just getting a
database you are getting backups
included for you you re getting support
free transfer analytics hardware costs
and maybe some other stuff thrown in
there but it s something where if your
database crashes you don t have to go in
there and handle that stuff they have a
team that is making sure your database
is up and running and functioning
correctly and so that can be really nice
but it can be really expensive so
another option and that s similar to
this is with Redis labs where they are
hosting a Redis instance for you and
here you can see it is twenty two
dollars a month for one gigabyte and for
five of your bytes is one hundred and
five dollars a month so very quickly
with not a lot of gigs it gets very
pricey but again they are doing extra
stuff for you and again depending on
your plan you get more stuff and so if
you need these extra services maybe you
want to consider these things but not
everybody needs all of these things and
it s one of those things where for a lot
of sites if your database crashes it s
okay to have an hour of downtime where
you go in there and you fix it yourself
that usually isn t too problematic for
most sites it s just the fact that you
don t really need 99 percent uptime all
the time it s a very rare case that your
database crashes at least it should be
if it isn t you may want to have to
consider switching your database or
changing something up so what I like to
do instead is host the database and a
virtual private server so for example
digitalocean is a company that sells
these so is a vulture and there is a ton
like this where basically you get a
little computer and you can install
whatever software you want in there and
host projects and so it s also very
flexible so not only can I stick MongoDB
but I can also stick Redis on there and
so I m not limited to just hosting a
single database on there but I can host
multiple databases and I can also
include my back end server so personally
what I will do for small projects is I
will setup a single virtual machine
which I will stick my database and I ll
also stick my server on
so they re close together now again this
may not be optimal in all cases because
if my database crashes so does my entire
application but a lot of cases this is
an acceptable amount of risk and I think
is a great option if you are doing a
small to medium sized project and you
see using this or building this over a
long term because it is a cheaper price
and if you want some of these other
services along with just you know
hosting your database you will need to
set these up yourself which can be a pro
or a con the pro is you can set up
however you like and you get a ton of
flexibility with it you get to choose
the analytic tool that you use or you
get to pick the way that you re backing
up your database so for example backups
were something that I really want it so
what I do is I have a cron job which
runs every day and it backs up the
database and saves the database to s3 so
on AWS on Amazon and so I have backups
made every day and make sure I don t
lose any data still and to give you a
little insight into I actually like to
use to manage everything on the virtual
machine I like this open source software
called dokku which works very similar to
Heroku where you just push up your code
and add in some database add ons and you
just let it handle the rest for you you
know if they touch nginx or mapping
subdomains and it s very easy to get
let s encrypt set up so you have htps
and so I actually have and you can run
several different servers from the
single virtual machine and so I have
Postgres running in there and Redis and
then also my back end server and so
being able to handle all those things in
a single box or single server is pre
cost efficient so how much do these
virtual private readings actually cost
well here is the pricing table for
vulture so you can see it starts at 250
a month and it goes up from there and it
really just depends on how much memory
and how much CPU you need or you want
now it s not just about those two things
though and so that s one of the things
that I naively would compare before so
for example we can look at the price
table here and the price table
Oshin and we can see they re pretty
comparable at least with the amount of
memory and CPUs and transferred discs
and that sort of thing that you get
compared to each other but that doesn t
mean you re gonna get similar
performance and the underlying software
that vulture and digitalocean use could
be totally different and so to be honest
with you I have no idea which VPS
provider you should choose I m
personally trying out a couple different
ones right now that try to figuring out
which one I like the best I m playing
around with this one called SSD notes
but I have no idea if they re any good
but here is the thing that I think is
the true test is to just do benchmarks
and to see which one benchmarks the best
is probably the best way to choose
between these and so one place that does
this there s this Josh tronic blog that
compares them and so it gives you a nice
side by side of these five providers and
they ll actually go into CPU and some
other things memory and compare the
speeds of them and see which one you re
actually getting you know you may pay
10 for each one of these which ones
actually give you the most performance
best memory or best CP or etc another
place that I found that was pretty
interesting was called VPS benchmarks
where you could actually compare two
different VPS and their speeds and
whatnot so if you go to compare maybe
providers where was I could actually
like show suit compare VPS providers and
so I could click vulture and I could
click Google cloud compute or compute
engine I mean we could actually compare
these and get a breakdown of their both
their pricing and also in each category
they kind of rate them on performance
and whatnot and you can even get into
more fine grain things down here on the
performance at different levels so if
you re into this thing and you want to
dive into this you could send you could
consider looking at these different
benchmarks and maybe that ll help you
pick but in this particular category I
have no idea which one is the best
vulture seems to consistently be one
that across several different benchmarks
performs
pretty well and I ve used it and it s
been a positive experience so it s one I
feel confident recommending starting
with at least but there may be some
better ones out there so let me know if
you have a favorite on what you actually
choose for this but in general
price wise they re pretty comparative
and they offer about the same CPU about
the same memory so it really comes down
to the performance of each one of what
they re giving you okay so the VPS will
handle your back end in your database
now for your front end this only really
matters if you re not doing server side
rendering so if you re doing jam stack
or you have a static website aka if
you re using create react app using
Gatsby something like that I actually
like to host it on net liffe I if you
are doing server side rendering aka
you re using Django Ruby on Rails using
next yes something like that where you
are actually you know rendering the
pages from your server then you can
actually just stick it with your VPS and
you can do it there so this is for
static sites I like to split them off
and not render them in the VPS because
you can get a really nice free tier from
net liffe I and so it will take some
load off of your server if you can serve
stack files here so what I ll do is I
believe it s up to a hundred gigabytes
of bandwidth that you get for actually
being able to host here and so that will
last you a very long time and static
websites are so easy to like migrate who
you re hosting with it s very easy to if
you reach over the hundred gigs which
will give you give you for free it s
very easy to switch if you want to go
somewhere else but you may even want to
stick with metal if I I personally just
really like the experience with
deploying here it s very easy it s very
quick and I like it a lot so this is
where I would go just totally free for
front end at your website if it s static
so lastly let s talk about handling user
uploaded images so I m not talking about
you know you have some assets on your
landing page I m talking about your
Twitter your Facebook your some place
where you want to handle the user
uploading stuff and displaying their
custom images and they could upload them
anytime and so you want to be able to
handle that so I want to first talk
about the approach that I like the best
and then we re talking about how you
can t accomplish that approach so this
is the one that I really like and that
is to store wherever they upload store
it at that size so if they upload an
image that happens to be 900 by 900 you
save it as 900 by 900 now the thing is
your website may need it a different
size or may need some different settings
on the image so what you ll do is when
you request the image you will give it
some parameters for example the width
and height that you need or maybe you
need this width right and so what we ll
do is the service will resize it get to
the width that you want it on the fly
then it will cache it and then it ll
give you the image so this is something
where the first time it may take
slightly longer because it needs to
dynamically create the image at the do
size on the server and it s going to
give you the image so the nice part of
this approach is you have the original
image at 900 by 900 and then you can
resize it to whatever you want right so
as your requirements for the website
change or maybe you need different sizes
in different places it s very easy to be
able to just change the URL parameter
you don t have to go generating a bunch
of files ahead of time the right size
that you want now I ve tried doing this
approach myself in putting this logic on
digital ocean or vulture or one of those
places but to be honest it is just a
headache to try to do well it s not so
much it s a headache to actually set up
it s more of a headache to try to get
performant and I was never able to get
to a speed that was quite happy with
I even tried seeking cloud fair in front
but even then when image is loaded it
was just a lot slower than some of the
other options so I would actually
recommend in this case at least I
haven t had much success try and do it
myself
this is where I actually do like using a
service to handle dynamically resizing
images for me so there are two places
that I know of that can
do this image thing for you so the first
one is cloud nari and they are great on
a budget at least they re free tier
handles quite a bit of images so you pay
nothing upfront similar to how with the
cloud provider has a nice free tier and
then maybe you ll be paying more later
but the hard thing I have with this
service is or the hard thing to tell
from this is they give you monthly
credits so for example the free tier you
get 25 and just a side note I really
hate when these companies create their
own little currency like this it s very
hard to try to figure out how the
currency maps to actual spending but
anyway you get 25 credits which then
used to a hundred or a thousand
transformations one Giga storage or one
gig of net viewing bandwidth you get the
gist so what the credits could go to
some amount of image processing so it s
really hard to tell when exactly you
would hit threshold to be paying 89 a
month to be honest I m not quite sure
when a project you really need or how
much usage you d have before you reach
the threshold because it s kind of hard
to calculate ahead of time how much your
image usage is going to be so that s my
main beef with clouding area I think
it s really nice I think the service is
good but I personally haven t used them
a ton because I feel like their pricing
is a little less transparent than the
second option which is image X so with
this company how it works is you pay 3
per thousand images and then 8 cents per
gigabyte of bandwidth and then you can
transform the image with the property s
height width and then they have a
thousand other transformations you can
do as me as many times as you want it
doesn t cost extra so I have a very hard
time trying to compare this pricing take
Loudoun Aires and trying to figure out
well with this many credits how much is
it going to be on image X I m not really
sure so if someone s done the math do
let me know but my gut instinct says
once you pass the free tier of cloud and
airy I feel like image X is going to be
less money but to be asked I haven t
no idea but I think both of them are
pretty good options I ve really enjoyed
image X as a service I thought it s
worked out really great but they don t
have a free tier cloud Andheri does so
maybe cloud nare just strictly wins and
maybe it s even cheaper at the plus tier
that was the case I probably should
probably switch the cloud nari but I am
personally using image X right now
liking them but these are two really
good options for handling your images
but there you go in conclusion I like to
use cloud services if I am doing a
project where in the long term I see it
making a lot of money but maybe in the
short term I want to take advantage of
the free tier otherwise I like putting
my back end my server on a virtual
machine for example using vulture and
then serving my website on net low Phi
and hosting my images on either cloud
Neri or on image X also one thing I
totally forgot to mention Culinaire will
actually host your images image X you
don t doesn t actually host your images
I forgot that s like a huge difference
actually so I actually have my images
stored on Google Cloud storage and then
image X is kind of a cache layer in
front of it so that s big thing to know
difference between the two but yeah I ve
liked image X that s just a heads up so
there you go that is how you can deploy

welcome back I hope you had a good
holiday if you celebrate Thanksgiving I
have a pretty decent one had a weird
sore throat problem but I m starting to
recover from it and feel a lot better
now so that s good
and I actually didn t have a big turkey
I am half 11 knees so he actually had
some middle eastern food we had Kibby
which is a minced meat dish mixed with
bulgur which is actually quite good I
enjoyed it a lot but today we re going
to be talking about hosting your
projects and where are some good options
if you want to save money and deploy on
a budget so the general way to save
money when deploying things is to spend
more time setting them up yourself
rather than paying a service to set up
stuff for you now the first thing that
we re going to look at is cloud
providers now they kind of break the
rule because they do this thing where
they have a juicy free tier so AWS has
it where they offer a bunch of free
stuff for their services for 12 months
Azure has a similar thing where for 12
months they offer you free services and
they also throw in a two hundred dollar
credit for 30 days now AWS I believe
also gives you like a hundred dollar
credit you can get somewhere and all of
these cloud providers have random
promotions where they re throwing money
at you also Google cloud has one where
you just get straight 300 for 12 months
and then they also have some always free
stuff so these guys are kind of cheating
because they don t actually charge you
anything usually until after a year of
using them or until you pass their free
usage which usually doesn t happen right
away so there s this illusion of value
that you re able to not spend anything
and get a ton of services and so this is
the exception to the rule where you re
able to leverage some of this stuff
short term and that s the key thing
these are great options if you want to
set up a project that you think maybe
take a year to
set up or something you re gonna have a
low traffic at first and then after that
you see yourself growing the project and
starting to get more users and hopefully
generating some revenue through your
service and then you can pay for some of
the higher prices that the cloud
services are going to charge because
that is the way they function they try
to hook you in with the free services
you get set up and using them you re
using their services so it s harder to
migrate away and use a different service
it s easier to just stay where you are
so when the free tier is up you continue
using them and you start using their
paid versions of whatever you re getting
from free before and this is where it
starts to get more expensive than some
of the other options but with that said
I still think this is a super legit way
to go especially if you see yourself in
the short term having a smaller budget
but in the long term having a more
flexible or larger budget to work with
especially because it s always gonna be
cheaper to hire Google cloud to manage
for example your database or your
servers than it is to hire a human to
monitor and make sure those things are
working and so if you want to start
cheap and then get some of the services
that are gonna be handled for you I
think a cloud free tier and then paying
later is a great option to go with now
there s some other things to consider
when choosing a cloud provider there s
two things that I do not like about them
the first is their complexity just to
setup and use so they have gone to the
point now where they are just supporting
so many use cases and so many different
services that their dashboards are
getting very very complex and they are
offering certificates to learn AWS or
you get certified to show that you
actually know how to use AWS now because
it is that complex and you actually put
on your resume that you are capable of
using AWS because it is getting to that
point where you really need to study it
to fully understand how it works and
make sure you re using it correctly and
so that really ties in with the second
thing you can really easily mess up and
the price
is not always super transparent it s
very easy to spin up a lot of different
services underneath the hood and then
all of a sudden you have a larger bill
than you were expecting so it s not
always clear how much you re going to be
spending when you actually start using
these cloud providers so once you ve
decided you actually want to use a cloud
provider the next question is which one
should you use should you go with Google
Microsoft desert or Amazon s AWS now
this is a video and it s owned which one
should you choose and this is also just
not the only options Oracle has a cloud
these just happen to be the biggest ones
and I would probably recommend just
starting with AWS because this happens
to be the one that is used the most so
it s gonna carry over this skill set to
know a BWS is actually getting pretty
important and a lot of different jobs
need it and you ll use it in a lot of
different places but I m gonna leave an
in depth comparison for a separate video
okay so that is option number one go
with a cloud and take advantage of their
generous free tears now option number
two is one that I personally use and
it s where we get more into setting
stuff up ourselves and I m gonna split
this into four categories number one is
hosting our database number two is
hosting our server number three is
hosting our front end
so server more are back inside and then
our front end side our website and then
lastly what about user uploaded images
now I m choosing that because that s a
very common thing that you usually have
in your application and something you
need to think about and affects how you
host so starting with the database this
is what I would not recommend using if
you re on a budget and the reason for
that is it gets very expensive very
quickly and that is these hosted
database options that are getting more
popular so one example this is M lap
where they will host a MongoDB database
for you and you can see here it costs
15 per gigabyte and that is very
expensive a gigabyte is not a lot of
data but if you take it to the
why this is so much it makes sense and
that s because you re not just getting a
database you are getting backups
included for you you re getting support
free transfer analytics hardware costs
and maybe some other stuff thrown in
there but it s something where if your
database crashes you don t have to go in
there and handle that stuff they have a
team that is making sure your database
is up and running and functioning
correctly and so that can be really nice
but it can be really expensive so
another option and that s similar to
this is with Redis labs where they are
hosting a Redis instance for you and
here you can see it is twenty two
dollars a month for one gigabyte and for
five of your bytes is one hundred and
five dollars a month so very quickly
with not a lot of gigs it gets very
pricey but again they are doing extra
stuff for you and again depending on
your plan you get more stuff and so if
you need these extra services maybe you
want to consider these things but not
everybody needs all of these things and
it s one of those things where for a lot
of sites if your database crashes it s
okay to have an hour of downtime where
you go in there and you fix it yourself
that usually isn t too problematic for
most sites it s just the fact that you
don t really need 99 percent uptime all
the time it s a very rare case that your
database crashes at least it should be
if it isn t you may want to have to
consider switching your database or
changing something up so what I like to
do instead is host the database and a
virtual private server so for example
digitalocean is a company that sells
these so is a vulture and there is a ton
like this where basically you get a
little computer and you can install
whatever software you want in there and
host projects and so it s also very
flexible so not only can I stick MongoDB
but I can also stick Redis on there and
so I m not limited to just hosting a
single database on there but I can host
multiple databases and I can also
include my back end server so personally
what I will do for small projects is I
will setup a single virtual machine
which I will stick my database and I ll
also stick my server on
so they re close together now again this
may not be optimal in all cases because
if my database crashes so does my entire
application but a lot of cases this is
an acceptable amount of risk and I think
is a great option if you are doing a
small to medium sized project and you
see using this or building this over a
long term because it is a cheaper price
and if you want some of these other
services along with just you know
hosting your database you will need to
set these up yourself which can be a pro
or a con the pro is you can set up
however you like and you get a ton of
flexibility with it you get to choose
the analytic tool that you use or you
get to pick the way that you re backing
up your database so for example backups
were something that I really want it so
what I do is I have a cron job which
runs every day and it backs up the
database and saves the database to s3 so
on AWS on Amazon and so I have backups
made every day and make sure I don t
lose any data still and to give you a
little insight into I actually like to
use to manage everything on the virtual
machine I like this open source software
called dokku which works very similar to
Heroku where you just push up your code
and add in some database add ons and you
just let it handle the rest for you you
know if they touch nginx or mapping
subdomains and it s very easy to get
let s encrypt set up so you have htps
and so I actually have and you can run
several different servers from the
single virtual machine and so I have
Postgres running in there and Redis and
then also my back end server and so
being able to handle all those things in
a single box or single server is pre
cost efficient so how much do these
virtual private readings actually cost
well here is the pricing table for
vulture so you can see it starts at 250
a month and it goes up from there and it
really just depends on how much memory
and how much CPU you need or you want
now it s not just about those two things
though and so that s one of the things
that I naively would compare before so
for example we can look at the price
table here and the price table
Oshin and we can see they re pretty
comparable at least with the amount of
memory and CPUs and transferred discs
and that sort of thing that you get
compared to each other but that doesn t
mean you re gonna get similar
performance and the underlying software
that vulture and digitalocean use could
be totally different and so to be honest
with you I have no idea which VPS
provider you should choose I m
personally trying out a couple different
ones right now that try to figuring out
which one I like the best I m playing
around with this one called SSD notes
but I have no idea if they re any good
but here is the thing that I think is
the true test is to just do benchmarks
and to see which one benchmarks the best
is probably the best way to choose
between these and so one place that does
this there s this Josh tronic blog that
compares them and so it gives you a nice
side by side of these five providers and
they ll actually go into CPU and some
other things memory and compare the
speeds of them and see which one you re
actually getting you know you may pay
10 for each one of these which ones
actually give you the most performance
best memory or best CP or etc another
place that I found that was pretty
interesting was called VPS benchmarks
where you could actually compare two
different VPS and their speeds and
whatnot so if you go to compare maybe
providers where was I could actually
like show suit compare VPS providers and
so I could click vulture and I could
click Google cloud compute or compute
engine I mean we could actually compare
these and get a breakdown of their both
their pricing and also in each category
they kind of rate them on performance
and whatnot and you can even get into
more fine grain things down here on the
performance at different levels so if
you re into this thing and you want to
dive into this you could send you could
consider looking at these different
benchmarks and maybe that ll help you
pick but in this particular category I
have no idea which one is the best
vulture seems to consistently be one
that across several different benchmarks
performs
pretty well and I ve used it and it s
been a positive experience so it s one I
feel confident recommending starting
with at least but there may be some
better ones out there so let me know if
you have a favorite on what you actually
choose for this but in general
price wise they re pretty comparative
and they offer about the same CPU about
the same memory so it really comes down
to the performance of each one of what
they re giving you okay so the VPS will
handle your back end in your database
now for your front end this only really
matters if you re not doing server side
rendering so if you re doing jam stack
or you have a static website aka if
you re using create react app using
Gatsby something like that I actually
like to host it on net liffe I if you
are doing server side rendering aka
you re using Django Ruby on Rails using
next yes something like that where you
are actually you know rendering the
pages from your server then you can
actually just stick it with your VPS and
you can do it there so this is for
static sites I like to split them off
and not render them in the VPS because
you can get a really nice free tier from
net liffe I and so it will take some
load off of your server if you can serve
stack files here so what I ll do is I
believe it s up to a hundred gigabytes
of bandwidth that you get for actually
being able to host here and so that will
last you a very long time and static
websites are so easy to like migrate who
you re hosting with it s very easy to if
you reach over the hundred gigs which
will give you give you for free it s
very easy to switch if you want to go
somewhere else but you may even want to
stick with metal if I I personally just
really like the experience with
deploying here it s very easy it s very
quick and I like it a lot so this is
where I would go just totally free for
front end at your website if it s static
so lastly let s talk about handling user
uploaded images so I m not talking about
you know you have some assets on your
landing page I m talking about your
Twitter your Facebook your some place
where you want to handle the user
uploading stuff and displaying their
custom images and they could upload them
anytime and so you want to be able to
handle that so I want to first talk
about the approach that I like the best
and then we re talking about how you
can t accomplish that approach so this
is the one that I really like and that
is to store wherever they upload store
it at that size so if they upload an
image that happens to be 900 by 900 you
save it as 900 by 900 now the thing is
your website may need it a different
size or may need some different settings
on the image so what you ll do is when
you request the image you will give it
some parameters for example the width
and height that you need or maybe you
need this width right and so what we ll
do is the service will resize it get to
the width that you want it on the fly
then it will cache it and then it ll
give you the image so this is something
where the first time it may take
slightly longer because it needs to
dynamically create the image at the do
size on the server and it s going to
give you the image so the nice part of
this approach is you have the original
image at 900 by 900 and then you can
resize it to whatever you want right so
as your requirements for the website
change or maybe you need different sizes
in different places it s very easy to be
able to just change the URL parameter
you don t have to go generating a bunch
of files ahead of time the right size
that you want now I ve tried doing this
approach myself in putting this logic on
digital ocean or vulture or one of those
places but to be honest it is just a
headache to try to do well it s not so
much it s a headache to actually set up
it s more of a headache to try to get
performant and I was never able to get
to a speed that was quite happy with
I even tried seeking cloud fair in front
but even then when image is loaded it
was just a lot slower than some of the
other options so I would actually
recommend in this case at least I
haven t had much success try and do it
myself
this is where I actually do like using a
service to handle dynamically resizing
images for me so there are two places
that I know of that can
do this image thing for you so the first
one is cloud nari and they are great on
a budget at least they re free tier
handles quite a bit of images so you pay
nothing upfront similar to how with the
cloud provider has a nice free tier and
then maybe you ll be paying more later
but the hard thing I have with this
service is or the hard thing to tell
from this is they give you monthly
credits so for example the free tier you
get 25 and just a side note I really
hate when these companies create their
own little currency like this it s very
hard to try to figure out how the
currency maps to actual spending but
anyway you get 25 credits which then
used to a hundred or a thousand
transformations one Giga storage or one
gig of net viewing bandwidth you get the
gist so what the credits could go to
some amount of image processing so it s
really hard to tell when exactly you
would hit threshold to be paying 89 a
month to be honest I m not quite sure
when a project you really need or how
much usage you d have before you reach
the threshold because it s kind of hard
to calculate ahead of time how much your
image usage is going to be so that s my
main beef with clouding area I think
it s really nice I think the service is
good but I personally haven t used them
a ton because I feel like their pricing
is a little less transparent than the
second option which is image X so with
this company how it works is you pay 3
per thousand images and then 8 cents per
gigabyte of bandwidth and then you can
transform the image with the property s
height width and then they have a
thousand other transformations you can
do as me as many times as you want it
doesn t cost extra so I have a very hard
time trying to compare this pricing take
Loudoun Aires and trying to figure out
well with this many credits how much is
it going to be on image X I m not really
sure so if someone s done the math do
let me know but my gut instinct says
once you pass the free tier of cloud and
airy I feel like image X is going to be
less money but to be asked I haven t
no idea but I think both of them are
pretty good options I ve really enjoyed
image X as a service I thought it s
worked out really great but they don t
have a free tier cloud Andheri does so
maybe cloud nare just strictly wins and
maybe it s even cheaper at the plus tier
that was the case I probably should
probably switch the cloud nari but I am
personally using image X right now
liking them but these are two really
good options for handling your images
but there you go in conclusion I like to
use cloud services if I am doing a
project where in the long term I see it
making a lot of money but maybe in the
short term I want to take advantage of
the free tier otherwise I like putting
my back end my server on a virtual
machine for example using vulture and
then serving my website on net low Phi
and hosting my images on either cloud
Neri or on image X also one thing I
totally forgot to mention Culinaire will
actually host your images image X you
don t doesn t actually host your images
I forgot that s like a huge difference
actually so I actually have my images
stored on Google Cloud storage and then
image X is kind of a cache layer in
front of it so that s big thing to know
difference between the two but yeah I ve
liked image X that s just a heads up so
there you go that is how you can deploy

welcome back I hope you had a good
holiday if you celebrate Thanksgiving I
have a pretty decent one had a weird
sore throat problem but I m starting to
recover from it and feel a lot better
now so that s good
and I actually didn t have a big turkey
I am half 11 knees so he actually had
some middle eastern food we had Kibby
which is a minced meat dish mixed with
bulgur which is actually quite good I
enjoyed it a lot but today we re going
to be talking about hosting your
projects and where are some good options
if you want to save money and deploy on
a budget so the general way to save
money when deploying things is to spend
more time setting them up yourself
rather than paying a service to set up
stuff for you now the first thing that
we re going to look at is cloud
providers now they kind of break the
rule because they do this thing where
they have a juicy free tier so AWS has
it where they offer a bunch of free
stuff for their services for 12 months
Azure has a similar thing where for 12
months they offer you free services and
they also throw in a two hundred dollar
credit for 30 days now AWS I believe
also gives you like a hundred dollar
credit you can get somewhere and all of
these cloud providers have random
promotions where they re throwing money
at you also Google cloud has one where
you just get straight 300 for 12 months
and then they also have some always free
stuff so these guys are kind of cheating
because they don t actually charge you
anything usually until after a year of
using them or until you pass their free
usage which usually doesn t happen right
away so there s this illusion of value
that you re able to not spend anything
and get a ton of services and so this is
the exception to the rule where you re
able to leverage some of this stuff
short term and that s the key thing
these are great options if you want to
set up a project that you think maybe
take a year to
set up or something you re gonna have a
low traffic at first and then after that
you see yourself growing the project and
starting to get more users and hopefully
generating some revenue through your
service and then you can pay for some of
the higher prices that the cloud
services are going to charge because
that is the way they function they try
to hook you in with the free services
you get set up and using them you re
using their services so it s harder to
migrate away and use a different service
it s easier to just stay where you are
so when the free tier is up you continue
using them and you start using their
paid versions of whatever you re getting
from free before and this is where it
starts to get more expensive than some
of the other options but with that said
I still think this is a super legit way
to go especially if you see yourself in
the short term having a smaller budget
but in the long term having a more
flexible or larger budget to work with
especially because it s always gonna be
cheaper to hire Google cloud to manage
for example your database or your
servers than it is to hire a human to
monitor and make sure those things are
working and so if you want to start
cheap and then get some of the services
that are gonna be handled for you I
think a cloud free tier and then paying
later is a great option to go with now
there s some other things to consider
when choosing a cloud provider there s
two things that I do not like about them
the first is their complexity just to
setup and use so they have gone to the
point now where they are just supporting
so many use cases and so many different
services that their dashboards are
getting very very complex and they are
offering certificates to learn AWS or
you get certified to show that you
actually know how to use AWS now because
it is that complex and you actually put
on your resume that you are capable of
using AWS because it is getting to that
point where you really need to study it
to fully understand how it works and
make sure you re using it correctly and
so that really ties in with the second
thing you can really easily mess up and
the price
is not always super transparent it s
very easy to spin up a lot of different
services underneath the hood and then
all of a sudden you have a larger bill
than you were expecting so it s not
always clear how much you re going to be
spending when you actually start using
these cloud providers so once you ve
decided you actually want to use a cloud
provider the next question is which one
should you use should you go with Google
Microsoft desert or Amazon s AWS now
this is a video and it s owned which one
should you choose and this is also just
not the only options Oracle has a cloud
these just happen to be the biggest ones
and I would probably recommend just
starting with AWS because this happens
to be the one that is used the most so
it s gonna carry over this skill set to
know a BWS is actually getting pretty
important and a lot of different jobs
need it and you ll use it in a lot of
different places but I m gonna leave an
in depth comparison for a separate video
okay so that is option number one go
with a cloud and take advantage of their
generous free tears now option number
two is one that I personally use and
it s where we get more into setting
stuff up ourselves and I m gonna split
this into four categories number one is
hosting our database number two is
hosting our server number three is
hosting our front end
so server more are back inside and then
our front end side our website and then
lastly what about user uploaded images
now I m choosing that because that s a
very common thing that you usually have
in your application and something you
need to think about and affects how you
host so starting with the database this
is what I would not recommend using if
you re on a budget and the reason for
that is it gets very expensive very
quickly and that is these hosted
database options that are getting more
popular so one example this is M lap
where they will host a MongoDB database
for you and you can see here it costs
15 per gigabyte and that is very
expensive a gigabyte is not a lot of
data but if you take it to the
why this is so much it makes sense and
that s because you re not just getting a
database you are getting backups
included for you you re getting support
free transfer analytics hardware costs
and maybe some other stuff thrown in
there but it s something where if your
database crashes you don t have to go in
there and handle that stuff they have a
team that is making sure your database
is up and running and functioning
correctly and so that can be really nice
but it can be really expensive so
another option and that s similar to
this is with Redis labs where they are
hosting a Redis instance for you and
here you can see it is twenty two
dollars a month for one gigabyte and for
five of your bytes is one hundred and
five dollars a month so very quickly
with not a lot of gigs it gets very
pricey but again they are doing extra
stuff for you and again depending on
your plan you get more stuff and so if
you need these extra services maybe you
want to consider these things but not
everybody needs all of these things and
it s one of those things where for a lot
of sites if your database crashes it s
okay to have an hour of downtime where
you go in there and you fix it yourself
that usually isn t too problematic for
most sites it s just the fact that you
don t really need 99 percent uptime all
the time it s a very rare case that your
database crashes at least it should be
if it isn t you may want to have to
consider switching your database or
changing something up so what I like to
do instead is host the database and a
virtual private server so for example
digitalocean is a company that sells
these so is a vulture and there is a ton
like this where basically you get a
little computer and you can install
whatever software you want in there and
host projects and so it s also very
flexible so not only can I stick MongoDB
but I can also stick Redis on there and
so I m not limited to just hosting a
single database on there but I can host
multiple databases and I can also
include my back end server so personally
what I will do for small projects is I
will setup a single virtual machine
which I will stick my database and I ll
also stick my server on
so they re close together now again this
may not be optimal in all cases because
if my database crashes so does my entire
application but a lot of cases this is
an acceptable amount of risk and I think
is a great option if you are doing a
small to medium sized project and you
see using this or building this over a
long term because it is a cheaper price
and if you want some of these other
services along with just you know
hosting your database you will need to
set these up yourself which can be a pro
or a con the pro is you can set up
however you like and you get a ton of
flexibility with it you get to choose
the analytic tool that you use or you
get to pick the way that you re backing
up your database so for example backups
were something that I really want it so
what I do is I have a cron job which
runs every day and it backs up the
database and saves the database to s3 so
on AWS on Amazon and so I have backups
made every day and make sure I don t
lose any data still and to give you a
little insight into I actually like to
use to manage everything on the virtual
machine I like this open source software
called dokku which works very similar to
Heroku where you just push up your code
and add in some database add ons and you
just let it handle the rest for you you
know if they touch nginx or mapping
subdomains and it s very easy to get
let s encrypt set up so you have htps
and so I actually have and you can run
several different servers from the
single virtual machine and so I have
Postgres running in there and Redis and
then also my back end server and so
being able to handle all those things in
a single box or single server is pre
cost efficient so how much do these
virtual private readings actually cost
well here is the pricing table for
vulture so you can see it starts at 250
a month and it goes up from there and it
really just depends on how much memory
and how much CPU you need or you want
now it s not just about those two things
though and so that s one of the things
that I naively would compare before so
for example we can look at the price
table here and the price table
Oshin and we can see they re pretty
comparable at least with the amount of
memory and CPUs and transferred discs
and that sort of thing that you get
compared to each other but that doesn t
mean you re gonna get similar
performance and the underlying software
that vulture and digitalocean use could
be totally different and so to be honest
with you I have no idea which VPS
provider you should choose I m
personally trying out a couple different
ones right now that try to figuring out
which one I like the best I m playing
around with this one called SSD notes
but I have no idea if they re any good
but here is the thing that I think is
the true test is to just do benchmarks
and to see which one benchmarks the best
is probably the best way to choose
between these and so one place that does
this there s this Josh tronic blog that
compares them and so it gives you a nice
side by side of these five providers and
they ll actually go into CPU and some
other things memory and compare the
speeds of them and see which one you re
actually getting you know you may pay
10 for each one of these which ones
actually give you the most performance
best memory or best CP or etc another
place that I found that was pretty
interesting was called VPS benchmarks
where you could actually compare two
different VPS and their speeds and
whatnot so if you go to compare maybe
providers where was I could actually
like show suit compare VPS providers and
so I could click vulture and I could
click Google cloud compute or compute
engine I mean we could actually compare
these and get a breakdown of their both
their pricing and also in each category
they kind of rate them on performance
and whatnot and you can even get into
more fine grain things down here on the
performance at different levels so if
you re into this thing and you want to
dive into this you could send you could
consider looking at these different
benchmarks and maybe that ll help you
pick but in this particular category I
have no idea which one is the best
vulture seems to consistently be one
that across several different benchmarks
performs
pretty well and I ve used it and it s
been a positive experience so it s one I
feel confident recommending starting
with at least but there may be some
better ones out there so let me know if
you have a favorite on what you actually
choose for this but in general
price wise they re pretty comparative
and they offer about the same CPU about
the same memory so it really comes down
to the performance of each one of what
they re giving you okay so the VPS will
handle your back end in your database
now for your front end this only really
matters if you re not doing server side
rendering so if you re doing jam stack
or you have a static website aka if
you re using create react app using
Gatsby something like that I actually
like to host it on net liffe I if you
are doing server side rendering aka
you re using Django Ruby on Rails using
next yes something like that where you
are actually you know rendering the
pages from your server then you can
actually just stick it with your VPS and
you can do it there so this is for
static sites I like to split them off
and not render them in the VPS because
you can get a really nice free tier from
net liffe I and so it will take some
load off of your server if you can serve
stack files here so what I ll do is I
believe it s up to a hundred gigabytes
of bandwidth that you get for actually
being able to host here and so that will
last you a very long time and static
websites are so easy to like migrate who
you re hosting with it s very easy to if
you reach over the hundred gigs which
will give you give you for free it s
very easy to switch if you want to go
somewhere else but you may even want to
stick with metal if I I personally just
really like the experience with
deploying here it s very easy it s very
quick and I like it a lot so this is
where I would go just totally free for
front end at your website if it s static
so lastly let s talk about handling user
uploaded images so I m not talking about
you know you have some assets on your
landing page I m talking about your
Twitter your Facebook your some place
where you want to handle the user
uploading stuff and displaying their
custom images and they could upload them
anytime and so you want to be able to
handle that so I want to first talk
about the approach that I like the best
and then we re talking about how you
can t accomplish that approach so this
is the one that I really like and that
is to store wherever they upload store
it at that size so if they upload an
image that happens to be 900 by 900 you
save it as 900 by 900 now the thing is
your website may need it a different
size or may need some different settings
on the image so what you ll do is when
you request the image you will give it
some parameters for example the width
and height that you need or maybe you
need this width right and so what we ll
do is the service will resize it get to
the width that you want it on the fly
then it will cache it and then it ll
give you the image so this is something
where the first time it may take
slightly longer because it needs to
dynamically create the image at the do
size on the server and it s going to
give you the image so the nice part of
this approach is you have the original
image at 900 by 900 and then you can
resize it to whatever you want right so
as your requirements for the website
change or maybe you need different sizes
in different places it s very easy to be
able to just change the URL parameter
you don t have to go generating a bunch
of files ahead of time the right size
that you want now I ve tried doing this
approach myself in putting this logic on
digital ocean or vulture or one of those
places but to be honest it is just a
headache to try to do well it s not so
much it s a headache to actually set up
it s more of a headache to try to get
performant and I was never able to get
to a speed that was quite happy with
I even tried seeking cloud fair in front
but even then when image is loaded it
was just a lot slower than some of the
other options so I would actually
recommend in this case at least I
haven t had much success try and do it
myself
this is where I actually do like using a
service to handle dynamically resizing
images for me so there are two places
that I know of that can
do this image thing for you so the first
one is cloud nari and they are great on
a budget at least they re free tier
handles quite a bit of images so you pay
nothing upfront similar to how with the
cloud provider has a nice free tier and
then maybe you ll be paying more later
but the hard thing I have with this
service is or the hard thing to tell
from this is they give you monthly
credits so for example the free tier you
get 25 and just a side note I really
hate when these companies create their
own little currency like this it s very
hard to try to figure out how the
currency maps to actual spending but
anyway you get 25 credits which then
used to a hundred or a thousand
transformations one Giga storage or one
gig of net viewing bandwidth you get the
gist so what the credits could go to
some amount of image processing so it s
really hard to tell when exactly you
would hit threshold to be paying 89 a
month to be honest I m not quite sure
when a project you really need or how
much usage you d have before you reach
the threshold because it s kind of hard
to calculate ahead of time how much your
image usage is going to be so that s my
main beef with clouding area I think
it s really nice I think the service is
good but I personally haven t used them
a ton because I feel like their pricing
is a little less transparent than the
second option which is image X so with
this company how it works is you pay 3
per thousand images and then 8 cents per
gigabyte of bandwidth and then you can
transform the image with the property s
height width and then they have a
thousand other transformations you can
do as me as many times as you want it
doesn t cost extra so I have a very hard
time trying to compare this pricing take
Loudoun Aires and trying to figure out
well with this many credits how much is
it going to be on image X I m not really
sure so if someone s done the math do
let me know but my gut instinct says
once you pass the free tier of cloud and
airy I feel like image X is going to be
less money but to be asked I haven t
no idea but I think both of them are
pretty good options I ve really enjoyed
image X as a service I thought it s
worked out really great but they don t
have a free tier cloud Andheri does so
maybe cloud nare just strictly wins and
maybe it s even cheaper at the plus tier
that was the case I probably should
probably switch the cloud nari but I am
personally using image X right now
liking them but these are two really
good options for handling your images
but there you go in conclusion I like to
use cloud services if I am doing a
project where in the long term I see it
making a lot of money but maybe in the
short term I want to take advantage of
the free tier otherwise I like putting
my back end my server on a virtual
machine for example using vulture and
then serving my website on net low Phi
and hosting my images on either cloud
Neri or on image X also one thing I
totally forgot to mention Culinaire will
actually host your images image X you
don t doesn t actually host your images
I forgot that s like a huge difference
actually so I actually have my images
stored on Google Cloud storage and then
image X is kind of a cache layer in
front of it so that s big thing to know
difference between the two but yeah I ve
liked image X that s just a heads up so
there you go that is how you can deploy

